1. Amino Acid Composition (AAC); One of the simplest feature one can think is composition of component of a peptide. As all peptides are made of 26 amino acids, so we compute amino acid composition (AAC) of peptides. AAC provides the information regarding the percentage of each residue present in the peptide, which can be represented by a vector of dimension 26. The formula for calculating AAC for each residue is provided in the equation is "AAC (i) = Ri / N ∗ 100". where AAC (i) is the amino acid's numeric value per cent composition (i); Ri is the residue number of type i and N represents the length of the peptide sequence.

2. Dipeptide Composition (DPC); It provides more information than AAC, as it also provides composition of all possible pair of residues. It provides local order of residues and can be represented by a vector of dimension 676 (26×26). To compute the DPC of the given peptide, we first compute all the possible pairs of the 26 amino acids' numeric values, also known as dipeptides (e.g. 11, 1-3, 1-4 . . . .), and then compute their composition. The formula for calculating DPC is "DPC(i) = Total number of Dipeptide (i) / (N -1) * 100" where DPC(i) is a dipeptide type out of 676 dipeptides and N is the peptide length.

3. Binary Profile/One-Hot Encoding; The one-hot encoding method is quite popular among binary encoding techniques. The maximum length of peptides in our dataset is 113 amino acids. If the residues are less than 113 amino acids, a dummy residue "25" is added to the C-terminus. Therefore, each amino acid is represented by a 26-dimensional feature vector, where the standard amino acid is characterized by 1 at various positions and zero at the remaining 25 positions. Dummy residues, on the other hand, consist entirely of zeros.

10-fold cross-validation; We employed the 10-fold cross-validation technique in order to evaluate the performance of predictive models upon benchmark dataset. The processing of the validation technique (10-fold in this study) is as follows: First, the benchmark dataset was randomly divided into 10 subsets with identical size. Of which, nine subsets were employed as the training data for the training model and the remaining one as the validation data for internal testing. A total of 10 times were repeated. It was to say that each of the 10 subsets was used once as a validation set for the testing predictive model. Finally, the performance of the predictive model was estimated by averaging the 10 experiment results.